Welcome to JW Broadcasting for December 2022. On September 10th, 24 students reached
a milestone and graduated from the 152nd Class of Gilead. Many of the students were initially
invited to attend the school, but patiently waited until COVID-19 restrictions eased.
Now after five months of intensive study, how will they apply their training? How can they
succeed in their assignments? And how can they strengthen their brothers and sisters? These questions
and more are answered in part one of this Gilead graduation program. Well, this day has arrived for
your students. I see you there smiling and looking forward to this program. I'm sure it's hard for
you to believe that we've actually got to graduation day. But we also know that you're very keen and
enthusiastic to get to your assignments, whether you're going back to where you came from or you're
going to a new assignment. Over the last few months, you've learned so much haven't you? You've
crammed those, that information into your mind and heart. And now you've got that ready to
implement when you go to your assignments. But we need to be careful not only to be enthusiastic,
keen and zealous, but also we need to be patient. So we'd like to talk to you for a few moments about
this theme. Be enthusiastic, but be patient as well. Why so? Well, when you go to your assignments
with all this that you've learned, you're going to be tempted to try and implement it everywhere.
But remember, you're not going to change the whole world in one day, or even the whole
branch. You see, it's so easy to become overwhelmed if we try to take on too much all at one time.
So that's why it's important to be enthusiastic, but also patient.
How Lord Jesus Christ was an excellent example of this. When Jesus came into the world,
the whole world needed to hear his message. And yet he had to wait some 30 years,
growing up, according to Jehovah's time table, before he started his ministry. So that took
patience on his part, didn't it? But what about when Jesus started his ministry? What was his focus?
You can imagine him looking around, seeing all the things that needed to be done in the world at
that point. But let's turn our Bibles. If you turn with me, please to Matthew 15, Matthew 15 and
verse 24. And here Jesus said to his apostles, I was not sent to anyone except the lost sheep of
the house of Israel. That's interesting. Jesus here mentions he had a specific limited assignment.
What was the assignment? To go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Now if we turn back
just a couple of chapters in chapter 10 of Matthew, you notice in verses 5 and 6 when Jesus sent out
his apostles, what did he say to them? Do not go off into the road of the nations and do not enter
any Samaritan city. But instead, go continually to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
So as Jesus sent out his apostles, in this particular instance, what was he reminding them of?
He was telling them that they likewise had a limited assignment, a specific assignment.
They weren't supposed to try and do everything all at once, go to the Samaritans to the Gentiles.
They were to focus just on the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
So when we think about this, what do we learn from these two verses? Well first of all,
yes, the whole world needed to hear the message. But what did Jesus do and what did he expect of
his apostles? That they would recognize that they had a specific assignment. They weren't to be
overwhelmed by trying to think of changing the whole world at that point. Jesus showed great
trust in Jehovah. He knew that Jehovah would gradually expand the message and the reach of the
message. And of course, we realize that there was an expansion, then in 36 CE, another expansion.
So what does that mean for you? You see, when you return to your assignment or you go to the new
one, there's going to be endless number of possibilities of where you could help others,
to stabilize, strengthen everyone. But if you try to take everything on at once,
you're going to wear yourself out and probably wear out a whole lot of other people as well.
You know, the English idiom, don't bite off more than you can chew. You see,
gradually do the things that Jehovah has assigned you to do. If you try to be too broad in what
you do, you may end up not accomplishing much at all except just wearing yourself out. But be patient
just as Jesus was and recognizing that each one of you will have a specific assignment and then
try to work at that, trusting that Jehovah will allow your good example to benefit others and
gradually the effects of your work will spread to others. Now, an example of this is the South
Pacific. If I could just tell you about that. Now, when missionaries arrive in the South Pacific,
let's take for example, you might end up in a country that has 100 inhabited islands. Now,
you're a new missionary. I remember the feeling. And then you find out there's only 10 islands that
have Jehovah's Witnesses on. 10 islands that have publishers and congregations. So there's 90 that
don't. So what do you think the normal enthusiastic responses? Let's get a boat. We have to get a boat.
We must visit all the 90 islands. That needs to be done now immediately. Well, usually you're
assigned to one congregation in one area. Now, what's the point? What normally happens? Well,
you see, if you were to get a boat and there's nothing wrong with getting a boat or visiting out of
the Rollins, but if that becomes your focus in your neglect your assignment, how can you follow up
on all the interests that you may find on those 90 islands? It's not just enough to go and give
them some magazines, but you need to be there with them, build them up, and congregations are formed.
So normally what happens? Well, it's amazing to see missionaries and others who work in maybe
larger city areas. They work diligently at their assignments. But then maybe others from different
islands come to visit that city, the missionaries are in, and they get contacted. They show an interest.
They start to study. They return to their home islands and what happens gradually the work spreads
out to all these islands. So what's the point? Don't feel that you have to take on everything.
Focus as Jesus did on the limited assignment you have, but then along the way you may be surprised
at what happens. Now that's exactly what happened to Jesus. Let's go back to Matthew
chapter 15. Remember what was the assignment that Jesus had? In verse 24 he mentioned Israel.
Now looking at this map we see at that time there was actually a border around that area that we
could say was his territory assignment. But when Jesus said these words where was he? Do you remember?
Let's look at verse 21. Jesus now went into the region of Tyre and Sidon.
So when you look at the map where was Tyre and Sidon? What do you notice? He said he wasn't in his
territory. He was out among the Gentiles. Why? But when we look at the parallel account that's
mentioned in Mark chapter 7 it tells us that Jesus wanted some time alone with his apostles,
some downtime because there was so many crowds. I was so busy. Now I'm sure all of us can understand
that feeling Jesus had. So he took them out of that general area to this territory that was beyond
what he would normally preach in to have some quiet time together. But what happened?
Well the account tells us there was a Sorrow Phoenician woman, perhaps as the study notes help us
to see from a Greek background as far as a nationality went but maybe she was a citizen or an
inhabitant of that area, the Sorrow Phoenician area. So this woman approached Jesus, pleading with
him. Now she didn't look like a Jewish person. She probably didn't even speak Hebrew.
She certainly wasn't in the category of the lost ones of the House of Israel.
So Jesus initially when she started to make these efforts to talk to him, he mentioned this to his
apostles in verse 24. That's our assignment. But notice this was a little different in the sense that
this woman showed an appreciation for who Jesus was. Notice in verse 22, she said,
have mercy on me, Lord, son of David. Now here's a Gentile woman. She really know who David was
and by saying the son of David, as the study note indicates, perhaps she was showing face
in the fact that Jesus is the Messiah. So she wasn't your average Sorrow Phoenician person.
What did Jesus do? Well, he tested her little. He did emphasize the fact in a household.
You first of all feed the children, the family. And then the little dogs get fed afterwards.
And perhaps he was playing on words there. It's interesting. We're not sure what language Jesus
was speaking to her. The watchtower did say that Jesus perhaps did understand Greek and use it
at times. Why his apostles obviously understood some Greek. They wrote some of the books of the
Bible in Greek. But whatever the case, the record of this is written, the inspired record is in Greek.
And it uses this term little dogs. Was that an offensive? No. As it's mentioned, it was an affectionate
term like saying puppies or pets. So whatever the case, he must have looked very friendly,
perhaps out of the smaller in his face, because she was not deterred. What was Jesus' reaction?
Well, he acknowledged his territory, his assignment. But then in verse 28, he said,
Oh woman, great is your faith. Let it happen to you as you wish.
Is this the only time that Jesus did something like this for a non-Jewish person?
Remember in John chapter 4? Not only do we have this case of the Sire of a Nation woman,
but John 4, we've told about the Samaritan woman. This non-Jewish person was witness to.
And then even members of her village accepted Jesus as the Messiah.
And then what about the Roman army officer that Jesus was able to help? And he mentioned that Jesus
hadn't even seen that type of faith in all of Israel. So what lesson do we learn from this?
Well, Jesus focused on his assignment. He always acknowledged what he's assigned to do.
But when opportunities came up along the way to help those who weren't necessarily in his assignment,
he still gave them some help, because they were genuine persons who needed help.
Yes, although Jesus realized it wasn't yet the time to expand the work, he was willing to
reach out to these ones as well. So what's the lesson for all of us?
Well, when you go to your assignments, you will have a specific assignment.
Now, if it's in a Bethel or in the field, you'll know what your assignment is.
So don't start looking at all the other assignments that are around and how you can help them and
what you need to do and why don't they change? You've changed a lot in the last few months,
but remember, they haven't. And they survive without you.
So what's the key focus on your assignment?
Be zealous, be enthusiastic, but also be patient.
Yes, have trust in Jehovah that if you focus on your assignment, you work hard,
you take out whatever opportunities come your way along the way, then you can be sure you will
be blessed because you're enthusiastic, but also patient.
Well, now with those thoughts in mind, you have a very interesting program ahead of us.
First up, we have Brother Kenneth Cook, a member of the governing body,
and Brother Cook is going to talk to you on the theme, follow the steps that lead to blessings.
Brother Cook, please. To begin, I'd like to share a personal experience with you.
When I was told that I was appointed to be a member of the governing body,
one of the brothers who informed me said, with this assignment,
you'll experience a great increase in responsibility,
but you'll also see a corresponding increase in Jehovah's spirit to help you.
It will not be too much for you.
Well, those words were very, very reassuring to me.
And the fact is that all of us, no matter who we are serving Jehovah faithfully,
we must rely on his help to succeed in serving him.
Now, how do we show this and receive his help?
There are a number of ways we're going to focus on three of them.
They are follow direction, show faith, and use common sense,
or the thinking ability that Jehovah has given to us.
So let's consider the first step.
Sometimes, all that's required to receive Jehovah's blessing on our work is to follow a simple,
clear direction. Now, here's a Bible example of that. It's found in Mark chapter 14.
Mark chapter 14. Now, you'll recall from this account that God's son directed two of his disciples
to go into Jerusalem and to prepare a large furnished upper room for the Passover.
His directions were specific. For instance, Jesus said that they would meet a man carrying a large
earthenware jar, and they were to follow him. And then starting in verse 14, Jesus added this,
he said, wherever he goes inside, say to the master of the house, the teacher says,
where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready prepared for us there.
So the disciples went out, and they entered the city and found it just as he said to
them, and they prepared for the Passover. So the directions were simple, right? They were told
where they should go, who they should follow, what they were to say, and what they were to do.
And the two disciples promptly followed that direction. And of course, their obedience
brought many blessings, as we know. Well, what practical lesson can you draw from this?
The lesson that sometimes all that is needed in serving Jehovah is to follow simple clear
direction. You'll have many opportunities to do so in your assignments. Follow clear direction,
and look for Jehovah's blessing on it. But now in the other hand, you might be asked to care for
something that's far more involved than that. For example, what if you're asked to assist someone
who's known to be difficult to deal with? Or you're asked to care for a work-related problem
that others have not been able to solve? You're the one selected because you've had the training.
In such a case, what will help you? Your strong faith. The next step. The fact is that at times we
need to show added faith to fulfill our assignments. True? Consider the example of Ananias. Now,
he too was a man of faith, but he faced a challenge that required even more of him, and we read about
it in Acts chapter 9. We'll begin with verse 10. Acts chapter 9 verse 10. It says, there was a disciple
named Ananias and Damascus, and the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias. He said, here I am, Lord.
The Lord said to him, get up, go to the street, call straight, and look for a man named Saul from
Tarsus at the house of Judas. For look, he is praying. And in a vision, he has seen a man named
Ananias come in and lay his hands on him so that he may recover sight. But Ananias answered, Lord,
I've heard about many about this man, about all the harm he did to your holy ones in Jerusalem.
And here he has authority from the chief priest to arrest all those calling on your name.
But the Lord said to him, go, because this man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the
nations, as well as to kings and the sons of Israel. For I will show him plainly how many things
he must suffer for my name. Well, the direction was clear. Where should Ananias go to the street
called straight? Who was he looking for? A man named Saul. What house is he in? The house of Judas.
Ananias was even told what Saul was doing. He is praying. Then Ananias was told what he should do.
He was to lay his hands on him so that he would recover sight. Simple, right?
Jesus would do the rest. What a great example of giving clear direction. But here is where Ananias
needed to stir up more faith. The man he was to visit had severely persecuted the holy ones in
Jerusalem. And speaking to the Lord, Ananias added that this man quote has authority from the chief
priest to arrest all those calling on your name. We'll talk about stating the obvious to Jesus.
The point is that Ananias had a moment where he was overwhelmed by the way to the assignment.
That's just what happened. What would help him? More faith. And Jesus knew how to draw it up in
that dear man. Look again at Jesus reply. He simply restated his command, go. Then Jesus said that
this man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings and the
sons of Israel. Now Jesus added something there, didn't he? He pointed to the future. What was he
doing? He was helping Ananias to look ahead. See, and doing this evidently prompted Ananias to show
even more faith, which is what he needed. How do we know this? Well, look at what he said to Saul.
On meeting Saul, in verse 17 tells us that Ananias called him brother. His initial hesitation had
changed into putting his full faith and trust in Jesus direction. Well, like Ananias says,
you face challenges in the future and they will come. They come upon all of us.
Have strong faith that Jehovah sees what is needed and he and his dear son will help you. Keep
the big picture in mind and look to the blessings ahead for your hard work. Jehovah will always
bless your strong faith in him. Well, so far we've looked at the need to follow clear direction
and to show strong faith. Now we're going to add another step. Use common sense or thinking ability.
Our Bible example, Elijah. In this account, Elijah has traveled to Zaratheth, a Phoenician coastal town.
What was his business there? Well, the lamb was in the grip of a long drought and Jehovah would
help his prophet by means of someone in that town. Elijah was told, look, I will command a widow
there to supply you with food. It appears that he gave no other details about the widow than that.
So how would Elijah find her? Would Elijah look for the wealthiest widow to care for his needs?
Or would he use common sense and thinking ability along with his faith? Let's see what Elijah does
at first King's chapter 17 and we're going to read verse 10. First King's 1710, it says,
so he Elijah rose up and went to Zaratheth when he came to the entrance of the city.
There was a widow gathering pieces of wood. So he called to her and said, please bring me a
little water and a cup so that I may drink. So then what did Elijah do?
Evidently, he approached the very first widow he met and she was not a wealthy widow but a poor one.
In fact, it says Elijah had not yet passed beyond the entrance of the city.
What does this tell us about Elijah? First, he showed no prejudice and following through
on Jehovah's direction, did he? And second, he added thinking ability to his obedience and faith.
How so? Well, common sense would tell him to show his faith and start looking with the very first
widow he met. Elijah obviously had confidence that Jehovah would make his choice clear. His obedience
faith and good sense were rewarded because that widow was Jehovah's choice. Now, surely Holy
Spirit guided Elijah but we can't ignore the faith and clear thinking ability that Elijah developed
as he obediently did God's will after all prior to that widow, Jehovah used birds to carry food
to his prophet. Surely, Jehovah could use a poor widow as well. What's the lesson for you and for
all of us? Sometimes we're given much to go on when we receive an assignment. At other times,
frankly, maybe not so much. In such a case, our faith and clear thinking ability reminds us to trust
in Jehovah and to look for his guidance as we go forward in doing his will. Jehovah will always
help you dear friends at the right time. So then as our example show promptly obey, show strong faith
and use common sense and thinking ability in our service to our dear Heavenly Father. Remembering
such lessons will help you as you support Jehovah's work in your respective branches.
Jehovah gives power beyond what is normal to those who rely on him and who follow the steps that
lead to blessings. And we are confident that this will always be true of you.
Thank you very much Brother Crook. We hope to see the steps that are needed for us to gain blessings.
Well, now our next speaker on the program is Brother Jeffrey Winder who is a
Hopet to the Personnel Committee and Brother Winder is going to discuss with us this very
interesting question. How close can you be? How would you students answer this question?
Do you feel closer to Jehovah now than you did before your Gilead training began?
The answer is a resounding yes, isn't it? Maybe you can relate to these comments of
graduates of past classes of Gilead. One brother said, absolutely yes. I believe I now experience
more fully what it means to walk with God and know and rely upon him as a close friend.
Not merely someone I turn and look up to in prayer. As Sister said, Gilead definitely drew me
closer to Jehovah. The way we study the scriptures with intensity truly made me feel like the Bible
was a letter Jehovah wrote to me. Another brother said, Jehovah communicated with such clarity
which made it real and personal. It made me feel closer to Jehovah than ever before and that
feeling will never be forgotten. Well, unquestionably your deep study of God's word during Gilead
drew you closer to Jehovah. But here's the question. How close can you be? How close can your
relationship with Jehovah get? You saw it leap forward in five months of deep Bible study but
is there a limit? Is there more will you ever get done? Consider two points that answer that question.
The first one is found in the book of James chapter four. And let's read together the first part
of verse eight. And let's read it with that question in mind. Is there any limit to how close
our relationship with Jehovah could be? James four eight says draw close to God and he will draw
close to you. So is there any limit indicated here? Well, it is true that in English this phrase
to draw close to someone could be applied in a physical sense actually standing next to someone.
And in that case, there is a limit. You can only stand so close to someone. But that's not really
the sense of James four eight, isn't it? Rather, it's in this sense. When we talk about our close
friends, we're not talking about those that are nearest in proximity. We're talking about the
depth of our relationship, the closeness of our friendship. And so then to draw close to God then
means to strengthen our relationship, strengthen our friendship with him. And then looking at the verse,
does it appear that there's any limit to how close that relationship can get? The implication is
as long as we keep drawing close to Jehovah, then he'll keep drawing close to us.
And that takes us to our second point. And that is the real life example of God's Son.
Because Jesus drew close to Jehovah clearly. He was taught by Jehovah. Remember Isaiah 54 regarding
Jesus' pre-human existence where he said, he awakens me morning by morning. He awakens my
ear to listen like the top ones. Does that sound a bit like your Gilead training? Morning,
by morning. Jehovah was awakening your ear. Yet Jesus wasn't instructed by Jehovah for five months.
He was instructed for billions of years. And during all that time, his relationship with his father
continued to grow and deepen. So then we put it all together. You saw your relationship with
Jehovah grow significantly in five months of deep Bible study. James 4.8 encourages us to just
keep drawing close to Jehovah. And Jesus did so for billions of years and look at how close his
relationship with Jehovah is. So then what's the answer? How close can you be to Jehovah? The potential
for your relationship with Jehovah to deepen is endless. Well, that's just wonderful to contemplate,
isn't it? But let's make some application because this really becomes a very important overall
lesson that you take with you from your Gilead experience. That is how your deep Bible study
affected your relationship with Jehovah. And one of the reasons why this is such an important lesson
is because your success in your assignment is directly connected to the depth of your relationship
with Jehovah. Your success in your assignment is directly connected to the depth of your
relationship with Jehovah. Now, why can we say that? It's because of what takes place when we draw
close to Jehovah through a study of his word. In turn, with me, please, to the book of Psalms.
And we'll read the 25th Psalm in verse 4. Psalm 254. It says,
make me know your ways, O Jehovah. Teach me your paths. This is what's happening when we study
God's word, isn't it? We are coming to know Jehovah God's ways. The watchtower once said it this way.
It said, as we get a deeper and deeper understanding of God's word, we become
imbued with God's way of thinking. We become imbued with God's way of thinking. The dictionary
said that the word imbu implies the introduction of a quality that fills and permeates the whole
being. So like dying a garment or leavening bread. But here, we're talking about being imbued with
God's thinking that maybe God's thinking would fill and permeate our whole being. Is that possible?
Think back to the example of Jesus. As we discuss, Jesus drew close to Jehovah. He was taught by
Jehovah for billions of years and what was happening during that whole time. He was being imbued
with Jehovah God's thinking. And it so permeated him that when he was on earth, he could say it, John 14
9, whoever has seen me has seen the Father also. So in other words, everything that Jesus said,
everything that he did while on earth in every situation, well, we could imagine Jehovah doing
and saying those very things. And that is why the success of your assignment is directly connected
to the depth of your relationship with Jehovah. The more you draw close to Jehovah through a study of
his word, the more you are imbued with his thinking and the more than you will do and act and say
things as Jehovah would. And so how does this play out? Well, in your assignment, if you have the
privilege to contribute to significant decisions that will affect others in your department or at the
branch or in the field, even. Well, you want to be guided by a Jehovah's thinking, don't you?
You want to do things as he would do them. Well, the closer you are to Jehovah, the deeper that
relationship is, the more your decisions will mirror his. But of course, we know strengthening
and stabilizing others isn't always done in big grand gestures like that. Big decisions, new
organizational arrangements, quite often is the day-to-day interactions with others that really
encourages them. And isn't it true? We learn so much from those intimate conversations that Jesus
had with others or seemingly incidental interactions that he had with others that the Bible records.
Well, you will strengthen others in similar ways. For example, when you are guided by Jehovah's
thinking in personal matters, such as in your choice of dress and grooming, well, others will
certainly notice that and that will strengthen their resolve to make good decisions in these personal
areas. When you are guided by Jehovah's thinking in the use of your time, as busy as you will be
when the friends see you in the ministry at the meetings, working hard in your assignment,
they will take notice of that and that will strengthen their resolve to make good priorities
in their life. Every time you steer a negative conversation to the positive, every time you show
a willingness to do humble tasks, every time you take the time to get the other side of the story
before rendering judgment. It's in all these areas of your daily life, you give evidence that you
have drawn close to Jehovah, you have been imbued with his thinking and you are acting as Jehovah's
and in that case, you absolutely will strengthen and stabilize your brothers. Well, we love you
for your relationship with Jehovah and we encourage you to take this lesson of Gilead with you,
the effect that your deep Bible study had on your relationship with Jehovah and keep
drawing close to him. The potential is endless and this is what will ensure your success.
Well, may the rich blessing of Jehovah, your friend, be with you as you use your Gilead training
in the assignments he has given you. But I'm sure we'll all agree that was a beautiful
answer to the question, how close can you be in? All of us feel close to Jehovah, but what a
wonderful encouragement for us to draw ever closer to him. The next brother who's going to give you
some words of encouragement has a very intriguing theme, buy a field in Anathoth, a brother gauge
legal whose helper to the service committee is going to develop this theme buy a field in Anathoth.
The year was 608 BCE. The Prophet Jeremiah had already served nearly 40 years faithfully.
And now he was confined in the courtyard of the guard in Jerusalem. Jerusalem's walls were being
battered by the Babylonians. In less than a year, the entire city would be completely destroyed.
But Jeremiah had to weather this storm. There was no way out. There was no place for him to go. He
was under lockdown. Well, have you ever felt like Jeremiah as if the world was caving in on you?
Maybe it was a serious health scare. The health of a loved one. The death of a loved one.
Maybe COVID-19 has made you feel boxed in. Some of our brothers just like Jeremiah have faced
persecution or imprisonment. And that might be our lot before the end of the system of things.
Well, what will help you students? In fact, all of us during these critical last days when we
face personal trials or adversity, I invite you to open to Jeremiah chapter 32.
Let's consider a dramatic illustration in the life of Jeremiah.
Now, Jeremiah is under lockdown. Jeremiah 32, let's read verses 6 through 8.
Jeremiah said, the word of Jehovah has come to me saying,
here, Hannah Mel, the son of Shalom, your uncle will come to you and say,
a buy for yourself, my field and anothoth, because you have the first right to repurchase it.
Verse 8, Hannah Mel, the son of my uncle came to me just as Jehovah had said,
into the courtyard of the guard, and he said to me,
please buy my field and anothoth, in the land of Benjamin, for you have the right to take
possession of it and to repurchase it. Buy it for yourself. At that, I knew that this was by the
word of Jehovah. What was Jehovah's instruction to Jeremiah? Buy a field. Buy a field. Right now,
with the Babylonians beating on the door, Jeremiah might have thought, I need an escape plan,
not a field, of all places, anothoth. Where was anoth? Well, Jeremiah knew exactly where it was,
just a few miles north northeast of Jerusalem. He was born there into a priestly family. Did he
have pleasant memories of his past and anothoth as a youth? Very likely. But now that was a distant
memory. More recently, men of anoth, possibly some of Jeremiah's own relatives, threatened to kill
him because of his prophesy. Well, did Jeremiah obey in spite of any personal feelings he might have
had? Jeremiah always obeyed, even previously, when Jehovah told him not to take a wife or to have
children. Well, what did he do in this situation? Verses 9 and 10. So I bought the field and anothoth
from Panama, the son of my uncle. I weighed out the money to him, seven shekels and 10 silver
pieces. Then I recorded it in a deed, affixed the seal, called in witnesses, and weighed the money
in the scales. Jeremiah could have worked in the legal department. Well, he carried out the legal
transaction, the legal requirements of the transaction. He recorded the transaction in two deeds,
one sealed, one unsealed, complete transparency in this situation.
Why did Jehovah ask Jeremiah to buy a field and anothoth?
Jeremiah already had complete faith that yes, Jehovah's word would be restored. When 70 years had
transpired, the Jews would return to their homeland. But now, Jehovah reinforced Jeremiah's faith
by giving something specific to think about. Jeremiah could imagine the time when buying and
selling would again occur in Israel. Well, was Jeremiah's faith well placed in Jehovah's promise?
Absolutely. Ezra, later documented that 128 men of anothoth were among the first group of those
returning from Babylonian exile. Jehovah's word always comes true. Well, how might we,
how might you buy a field and anothoth? Well, we're not expecting you to go out and purchase
a piece of property and a place called anothoth. No, we find a clue, though, in Hebrews chapter 11.
Hebrews chapter 11, verse 1, faith is the assured expectation of what is hoped for.
The evident demonstration of realities that are not seen, the simple English Bible renders this
faith is the title deed to the things that we hope for. And on most of us in special full-time
service, we don't own property. But we may have the title to a car. What does that mean? That means
that that car that vehicle belongs to us personally. Our faith is the title deed of good things to come.
A guarantee of future realities. Jeremiah had a title deed. We have a title deed of faith.
So how do we buy a field and anothoth? It's not a type, anti-type situation. It's just an illustration.
In the context of our discussion, it means we exercise faith in Jehovah's promises.
When facing a trial, we can search Jehovah's word for promises regarding the future.
And that gives us strength to keep on enduring. For example, if we're facing a serious illness,
God's word promises no resident will say, I am sick. If we're grieving the death of a loved one,
the Bible assures us there is going to be a resurrection. The trial doesn't disappear yet,
but exercising faith in Jehovah's promises helps us to endure.
Now there's something else that we can learn from that dramatic illustration in the life of Jeremiah.
Back in Jeremiah 32, notice please, verses 13 through 15.
Jeremiah was inspired to write. He said, I now commanded barrack in their presence saying,
this is what Jehovah of Armies, the God of Israel says, take these deeds, this deed of purchase,
the sealed one, and the other deed left unsealed and put them into an earthenware vessel so that
they may be kept for a long time. For this is what Jehovah of Armies, the God of Israel says,
houses and fields and vineyards will again be bought in this land. Jeremiah involved barrack
in the legal proceedings when he bought the field in Anathoth. Jeremiah's faith influenced barrack
for the good. We can almost hear the confidence and conviction in his voice.
This is what Jehovah of Armies, the God of Israel says. Jeremiah used that expression,
Jehovah of Armies more than any other Bible writer. It was like Jeremiah said, our God will certainly
overturn the Babylonians. These promises are real. You can take them to the bank. They're not
counterfeit. They're completely true. What's the lesson for us? Our faith can strengthen fellow
believers. A sister named Joyce, while she herself was fighting cancer, she made what she called
shot in the arm cards. They were collections of Bible verses, pictures from our publications,
quotes from theocratic songs, or watched our articles, and she would give them to those in need
of encouragement. One of her favorites was Psalm 112, 7 and 8. And there it says, he will not fear
bad news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in Jehovah. His heart is unshakable. He is not afraid.
In the end, he will look and triumph on his adversaries. Sister Joyce had a lot of bad news in her life.
But her faith in Jehovah's promises was powerful. Sadly, Joyce lost her fight with cancer a few
years back, but she bought a field in Anathoth, and she will witness the fulfillment of Jehovah's promises.
Even now, she's given us a shot in the arm, encouragement from Jehovah's word strengthened
us with her faith. And so dear Gilead students, what have we learned? Faith is like a title deed
of things hoped for. Faith in Jehovah's word helps us to endure trials and adversity. Our faith
can have a power effect on those around us. So when faced with persecution, by a field in Anathoth,
when faced with a grievous health problem, by a field in Anathoth, when grieving the loss of
loved one, by a field in Anathoth, in some days soon, your faith will be rewarded. You'll walk
in that field when Jehovah's word comes true. What a beautiful talk. Not to be honest, I don't know
if you're like me. When I heard the theme by a field in Anathoth, I'm like, where on earth is he going
to take us? I mean, to be quite honest, then. Well, Brother Flegal, you took us to a very good spot
with the title deed and seen the connection there. In fact, that's going to be a little
password we might say by a field in Anathoth. And if we say to someone and they looked amazed,
we'll say, oh, you weren't there for the graduation program. Well, thank you very much.
Now, for your dear students over the last few months, you've drawn very close to the instructors.
And you've heard them day in, day out. You've learned and experienced a lot of things from them.
So the next two parts, the opportunities are two of these instructors that give you a few
final words of encouragement. So first of all, we're going to have Brother Trent Lipold,
who's going to talk to you. And he has this interesting question, distinguished by what?
He was a mighty man. He fell the heroes of the enemy. He slayed a giant. He even killed a lion.
And his name was not David. Who was he? Open your Bibles with me, please, to the book of First
Chronicles, chapter 11. First Chronicles, chapter 11, and verse 22. Beniah, the son of Jehoyada was a
courageous man who performed many exploits in Kabzeh. He struck down the two sons of Ariel of Moab,
and he descended into a water pit on a snowy day and killed a lion.
He also struck down an Egyptian man of extraordinary size, five qubits tall.
Though the Egyptian had a spear in his hand like the beam of loom workers,
he went against him with a rod and snatched the spear away from the Egyptian's hand and
killed him with his own spear. He is Beniah. Look at all we learn about him in these verses.
The qualities that Beniah displayed. It tells us in verse 22, he was a courageous man. He
performed many exploits in Kabzeh. Kabzeh. Kabzeh is a small place on the very southern border of Judah.
It borders Eden, the middle of nowhere. But Beniah worked there. He was happy to be there.
It may be that that was his home or it may be that that was his assignment. No matter
as obscure a place as Kabzeh is, that's where he worked. And the record says he performed many
exploits courageously in Kabzeh. He killed a lion, courage. But you notice he descended into a
water pit and killed a lion. Courage descended into a water pit with a lion. There's only one coming
out and it was Beniah. He descended into a water pit on a snowy day. He didn't wait for the sun
to shine. He knew that was the day. Adverse conditions, no matter. Beniah went in and he slayed the
lion. Look at verse 23, some more amazing qualities. He struck down the giant in Egyptian of
extraordinary size. But notice that though the Egyptian had a spear in his hand like the beam of
loom workers, he Beniah went against him with a rod, a rod, a stick. He didn't have the right
equipment. Courage, adaptability, commitment. And notice this, what does he do? It says he went
against him with a rod and snatched the spear away from the Egyptian's hand and killed him with
his own spear. Courage, commitment, adaptability, resourcefulness, admirable, beneficial qualities.
Are those the qualities that distinguished Beniah? Not entirely. There was one quality that
exceeded these. And that quality was loyalty. Tenacious adherence to the person of Jehovah.
That's what the Bible record reveals about Beniah. Personal loyalty to Jehovah. There is a caution
though with loyalty. The demarcation between loyalty to Jehovah and loyalty to self
can often be blurry. It hides under the inertia of imperfection and selfishness. That line of
loyalty to Jehovah versus loyalty to self can become very difficult to see. In fact, loyalty to
self can lie dormant within us until the circumstances arise and change and then it can emerge.
And Beniah and his contemporaries provide for us a beautiful contrast in loyalty to Jehovah and
loyalty to self. Think of Beniah. He lived in a very tumultuous time. David was a fugitive with his
mighty men. One of them likely was Beniah and others. These men were comrades in arms running
with David. They were a band of brothers. They were fiercely loyal to David and to be sure they
were loyal to Jehovah as well. For example, among these three mighty men were three brothers,
fleshly brothers. They're mentioned in verses 20 and 26. Jehovah, Abashai, and Azahel.
Now consider when circumstances changed for the mighty men. When Saul died and David now became
king. In these changing circumstances, what happened to the mighty men? Here's the contrast. Jehovah
and Beniah. What happened to Joab? Joab saw opportunity in changing circumstances.
And his loyalty to Jehovah was eclipsed by his loyalty to himself. For instance,
it was Joab who took matters into his own hands and he killed Abner with whom David had already
concluded a covenant. He took matters into his own hands. Why? He wanted Abner's job. His selfish
ambitions got the better of him and they eclipsed his loyalty to Jehovah. Joab was a courageous man.
He was resourceful. He was adaptable, admirable qualities, but in the absence of deep personal
loyalty to Jehovah, they seem somehow tainted, don't they? But consider Beniah in the same
circumstances. Beniah had no part in these kind of intrigues like Joab and his brothers. Beniah
was loyal to Jehovah and he was a loyal man to Jehovah's anointed one. David, and look at what we find
in verses 24 and 25. Verses 24 and 25. These things, Beniah, the son of Jehoyah did
and he had a reputation like that of the three mighty warriors. Although he was distinguished
even more than the 30, he did not attain to the rank of the three. However, David appointed him
over his own bodyguard. You see in the same circumstances as Joab, Beniah's tenacious adherence
to Jehovah, his deep personal loyalty to Jehovah, safeguarded him in these circumstances. What did David
see in Beniah? David saw in Beniah what he himself exemplified and that was deep and strong personal
loyalty to Jehovah. You can see that in this verse in verse 25, can't you? It says, however,
David appointed him over his own bodyguard. David knew to assign someone to this very, very trusted
position, head of his own bodyguard. The man in that position, if he was loyal to Jehovah,
he would be loyal to him and that's what David saw in Beniah. Then came another time of change,
decades later, when David died and Solomon became king, changed to circumstances another time
of opportunity. How would Beniah react? The same way he always did, deep personal loyalty to Jehovah
and it was Solomon when he became king who rewarded Beniah. The son of David, Solomon,
Jehovah's anointed, rewarded Beniah for his loyalty. Turn with me, please, to Proverbs 19, verse 22.
You see Solomon knew something about loyalty. He was the son of David and look at what he
wrote about loyalty in Proverbs 19, verse 22. Solomon said, the desirable thing in man
is his loyal love, his loyalty. That's what Jehovah looks for in us. So Beniah, he was indeed a mighty man
and he had beautiful qualities. Did they distinguish him? Not entirely. It was his deep personal
loyalty to Jehovah first and foremost that distinguished him. And because of that deep personal loyalty
to Jehovah, those qualities of Beniahs, they were beautiful. So daily cultivate your loyalty to God
through prayer and study. That's been your training here. Use your training to develop your
close personal loyalty to Jehovah. That's what Beniah did. Think of Beniah's training. He was the
son of Jehojada. Jehojada was one of the chief Levitical priests in Israel. Beniah was raised with
scrolls, not with swords, growing up the son of a priest that was his training. So like Beniah,
be willing to do the work without the rank. Remember loyalty is tested not when you are at ease,
loyalty is tested under adversity. So be careful in changing circumstances.
Guard your hearts. Dear students, you all have beautiful qualities. We've seen them over the
last five months. But may loyalty, may your deep personal loyalty to Jehovah,
distinguished you. Thank you very much brotherly, Paul, for that. We all felt like we were students
in the Gilead classroom, didn't we? And certainly you helped us to see the importance of loyalty.
Well, the next instructor is also a helper to the teaching committee by the Mark de Mer,
is going to give this stirring encouragement. March on with Jehovah. The young man he received his
assignment and it was not for the faint of heart. He would have to tell the desolation of cherished
cities, the burning of Jehovah's temple, the captivity of his people. And for delivering these
messages, which they were not easy, he would endure scathing and murderous attempts on his life.
Now on top of that, he would experience moments of discouragement, isolation, self-doubt.
When receiving his assignment, this young man said, Jehovah, I cannot do this. I'm just a boy.
The boy was from Anathoth. And his name was Jeremiah. But what would help him be successful with
this assignment? It would be following and taking to heart the very points that brother
Flegal brought out about faith. He would need deep abiding faith and trust in Jehovah. And in
addition to that, he would need to learn how to march. Jeremiah was ready to enter the front lines
of the battle, the battle to defend pure worship against those who hated. And like any good soldier,
one of the first things you learn is how to march. Now marching is more challenging than mere walking.
Marching requires determination. It requires stamina, endurance, and to keep moving forward
in a regular steady step. And as Jeremiah entered this battle, he would need to learn how to march.
What would help him? Recalling what was written in God's word, centuries before his time,
words recorded at Deuteronomy chapter 31 and verse 6. I want to read these words to you.
These words were so important to Jeremiah. The context was when Moses was encouraging confidence
in Jehovah that the nation of Israel was ready to enter into the Promised Land. They would face
enemies. They would face a fight, a battle. But look what Moses says in verse 6 of Deuteronomy 31.
Be courageous and strong. Do not be afraid or struck with terror before them. For Jehovah,
your God is the one marching with you. He's marching with you. He will neither desert or abandon you.
So how did Jehovah march alongside this boy?
At Jeremiah chapter 1 and verse 8, Jehovah tells Jeremiah, do not be afraid because of their appearance.
For I am with you to save you. Don't be afraid. In other words, when a person marches with Jehovah,
you see Jehovah marches with him, boosting him along, making him strong. It's as if Jehovah told
Jeremiah, don't worry. You just come and march with me. And for the next 67 years, that's exactly what
Jeremiah did. In Jehovah's strength, think about what happened. In Jehovah's strength,
Jeremiah preached to hard-hearted people, including wicked kings, corrupt priests, apostates. He did
it. And as he marched, he saw Jehovah march with him. He was conscious of that fact. Jehovah saved
him when imprisoned in a dungeon. Jehovah supplied him a daily ration of food during a famine.
Jehovah rescued him from a sister. You see, this is real. This was tangible. This was concrete.
It wasn't made up. Jehovah was marching with him. And as Jeremiah saw Jehovah's support,
it strengthened him. It gave him more confidence. And Jehovah marched with him. And then,
Jeremiah was ready then for the next trial. And why do we bring this up? Because your situation is
very similar to Jeremiah's household, along with your Gilead training. You are being put on the
front lines. You're going to be asked to defend pure worship, maybe like you never have before.
So we want you to stay in the battle. We want you to keep marching. For example, what if in your
assignment, opposition turns into outright persecution? Or what if in your branch territory,
you face a political upheaval or war? What if you need to risk your lives to provide relief?
Like our brothers in, in and around Ukraine are doing. What if that happens?
Your brothers will be looking to you as an example. Will you be able to set that example? Can
you maintain that example? Yes, you can. Because when you march with Jehovah, now listen carefully.
When you march with Jehovah, he does something very special for you in moments of weakness.
We'll consider what happened to Jeremiah. At one point it got so bad he wanted to quit. I'm quitting.
Jeremiah, chapter 20, verse 9. I'm not going to mention Jehovah's name. I'm not going to talk about
it anymore. I'm discouraged. I'm tired. I'm exhausted. I'm going to stop marching. He was losing
his focus. So how does Jehovah help him? What did Jehovah do? Did he say, well, Jeremiah, that's it.
If you're going to be exhausted, I'll find another prophet. No. Jehovah did not do that.
What did Jehovah do? And this is a thought we want you to take to heart. Jeremiah, chapter 20
and verse 11. How does Jehovah help him to keep marching? But Jehovah was with me
like a what friend? Like a brother? No, no, no, like a fearsome warrior. So in what way did
Jehovah prove to be a fearsome warrior, a mighty soldier standing right at Jeremiah's side?
How did Jehovah do that? Well, what happens in battle? When a soldier sees a fellow soldiers
stumble and fall? What does he do? He rushes to his side. He supports him. He grabs him. They
go together, wraps his arm around him and they move to safety together. This is what Jehovah did
for Jeremiah. In fact, Jeremiah tells us this in chapter 20 and in verse 7. What does Jeremiah say?
He experienced this. He says, You used your strength against me and you prevail.
You used your strength against me. What does that mean? Jehovah used his strength against Jeremiah's
weakness. Seeing Jehovah do this for him time and again, time and again, enabled Jeremiah to accomplish
what he could have never accomplished on his own. This is the point we're making for you and all
of these experience, strength, and it transformed his natural shyness, his feelings of inadequacy,
his lack of confidence into iron-like boldness. Jehovah was with him like a fearsome warrior.
Jehovah loved the commission he gave Jeremiah. He was working with Jeremiah to fulfill this commission.
It was precious to Jehovah, just like your commission. It's precious to Jehovah.
So you can be assured that Jehovah is going to do the same for you. We want you to have that
confidence. In fact, one sister who not long ago graduated from Gilead experienced this first hand.
Shortly after arriving in her assignment, she was arrested. Our sister was held captive in a
dungeon-like prison. And during that time, she was given meager rations of food and was subjected
to painful, prolonged punishment. How was she able to endure? How could she stay strong? How?
By marching with Jehovah. And she never lost sight of the fact that she was part of an army
of marchers. She was marching with the fearsome warrior. In fact, this is what she said,
thinking about my Gilead classmates. And visualizing their faces gave me power.
I kept their smiling faces in front of me. I imagine where each classmate sat, each row from
left to right, front to back. I recalled where they were from. What work they did in their assignments?
This made the time go by quickly and I felt no physical pain at all. I sang in my head,
kingdom songs. The song I sang the most was Jehovah's Your Name. Another song that touched my
heart deeply was song number 38. He will make you strong. I made that song more personal
by replacing the pronoun you with me. This song helped me never to give up. I had no Bible.
So each day I meditated on Bible teachings such as everlasting life and paradise and a resurrection
hope. These meditations gave me deep inner joy and a calm that cannot be described.
At times I thought about the possibility of facing death, but the fear of death did not consume me.
Yes, she thought about the possibility of facing death, but the fear of death did not consume me.
The fear some warrior Jehovah was marching with her, no prison walls, no bars can block Jehovah from
marching with her and our sister was recently released from prison. So whatever your trials,
we don't know what trials you're going to face, you don't know, we don't know, but reflect on how
Jehovah supports you. Stay in the battle. And when you reflect on Jehovah, how Jehovah supports you,
it's tangible, it's real, it's concrete. Think about that. Jehovah will never stop marching with you.
And remember, you are a part of a large army. You're not alone. Therefore, when you see a fellow
worshipper struggling, don't ignore them. Help them not to fall behind. Help them. Help them. You're
part of an army. You've been trained to do this. That's what school taught you. Not to be independent,
but to be interdependent, not independent, interdependent with your brothers and sisters. That's your
job. Be quick to help them back up. Keep marching with Jehovah. And although you don't know what
challenges lie ahead, you are prepared. So with your marching orders in hand, be courageous and strong,
knowing that each trial you face, each trial you endure will make you stronger for the next one.
Be confident. You'll always have the fearsome warrior, the mighty soldier marching by your side.
He's there, Jehovah. So now go. Wherever the battle may take you, go. And be determined to fulfill
your commission to support your brothers, as you march on with Jehovah. What a powerful encouragement,
one that I'm sure you remember for many years to come. And students, maybe I need to apologize,
I didn't realize Anathoth was going to be the buzzword. You see, if I'd realized that in the
beginning, my introduction, I would have said we need to follow the example of Jesus, who,
according to Matthew 16, 14, people thought was Jeremiah, who was from Anathoth. But anyway,
you can take note of that. But thank you again, brother Nameh. That was a very encouraging and
stimulating talk. Although these talks were directed to the Gilead graduates, they contain
beneficial lessons for all of us. We hope you enjoyed part one. Parts two and three will be
available on JW.org later this month. Our postcard is from the United States. It's a large
territory encompassing a variety of landscapes. There are majestic mountains, twisting ravines,
tropical islands, and vast deserts. Across this varied land resides an even greater
diversity of people. To help all they can, over 1.2 million publishers preach in 114 languages.
Whether native speakers or learners of a new language, publishers try to reach the heart.
One of the largest language groups in the United States is Haitian Creole. There are
approximately one million people of Haitian descent in the branch territory with over 10,000
publishers. Haitians are a vibrant people. As expressed in their energetic dances,
their colorful clothing, and their delicious food. Just north of Miami, Florida, there's a
community referred to as Little Haiti. It's here where the 80 publishers of the West Haitian
Creole congregation search for lovers of truth. They've witnessed in parks and on street corners.
They've written letters and focused on the family members of their Bible students.
The congregation now conducts on average 126 Bible studies.
With love, the brothers and sisters of the West Haitian Creole congregation of Miami,
Florida, send their greetings to the world-wide brotherhood.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.